README.md, before:

# OpenKodo 古道

**古道** (kodo - "Ancient Path") - Context management CLI and plugin marketplace for AI coding tools.

## Quick Install

### macOS / Linux

```bash
curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/paxtone-io/openkodo/main/install.sh | bash
```

### Windows (PowerShell)

```powershell
irm https://raw.githubusercontent.com/paxtone-io/openkodo/main/install.ps1 | iex
```

### Manual Download

Download from [Releases](https://github.com/paxtone-io/openkodo/releases):
- **macOS Intel**: `kodo-v*-x86_64-apple-darwin.tar.gz`
- **macOS Apple Silicon**: `kodo-v*-aarch64-apple-darwin.tar.gz`
- **Linux x64**: `kodo-v*-x86_64-unknown-linux-gnu.tar.gz`
- **Linux ARM64**: `kodo-v*-aarch64-unknown-linux-gnu.tar.gz`
- **Windows x64**: `kodo-v*-x86_64-pc-windows-msvc.zip`
- **Windows ARM64**: `kodo-v*-aarch64-pc-windows-msvc.zip`

## Plugin Marketplace

Kodo plugins extend Claude Code with specialized workflows:

| Plugin | Description |
|--------|-------------|
| [kodo](plugins/kodo/) | Core development workflows: planning, review, debugging, self-learning |
| [kodo-design](plugins/kodo-design/) | UI/UX design with WCAG AAA accessibility |
| [kodo-supabase](plugins/kodo-supabase/) | Supabase: databases, migrations, Edge Functions |
| [kodo-posthog](plugins/kodo-posthog/) | PostHog: events, feature flags, experiments |
| [kodo-analyzer](plugins/kodo-analyzer/) | Codebase analysis: security, performance, documentation |

### Install Plugins

```bash
# Install individual plugins
kodo plugin install kodo
kodo plugin install kodo-design

# List available plugins
kodo plugin list --available

# List installed plugins
kodo plugin list
```

### Plugin-Only Install (Claude Code)

For Claude Code users who only want the plugins without the full CLI:

```bash
# Or use Claude Code's native plugin install
# In Claude Code, type /plugin → Add Marketplace → paxtone-io/openkodo
```

## Usage

```bash
# Initialize in a project
kodo init

# Capture learnings from a coding session
kodo reflect

# Query accumulated context
kodo query "how do we handle authentication?"

# Add context manually
kodo curate --topic architecture "We use a hexagonal architecture pattern"

# Analyze codebase
kodo analyze --tech-stack --architecture
```

## Documentation

- [Getting Started](docs/GETTING-STARTED.md) - Installation and first steps
- [CLI Reference](docs/CLI-REFERENCE.md) - Full command documentation
- [Plugin Development](docs/PLUGIN-DEVELOPMENT.md) - Create custom plugins

## License

MIT License - see [LICENSE](LICENSE) for details.

Commit message:

Update licensing information in README
Clarified licensing terms for plugins and OpenKodo CLI.

README.md, after:

# OpenKodo 古道

**古道** (kodo - "Ancient Path") - Context management CLI and plugin marketplace for AI coding tools.

## Quick Install

### macOS / Linux

```bash
curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/paxtone-io/openkodo/main/install.sh | bash
```

### Windows (PowerShell)

```powershell
irm https://raw.githubusercontent.com/paxtone-io/openkodo/main/install.ps1 | iex
```

### Manual Download

Download from [Releases](https://github.com/paxtone-io/openkodo/releases):
- **macOS Intel**: `kodo-v*-x86_64-apple-darwin.tar.gz`
- **macOS Apple Silicon**: `kodo-v*-aarch64-apple-darwin.tar.gz`
- **Linux x64**: `kodo-v*-x86_64-unknown-linux-gnu.tar.gz`
- **Linux ARM64**: `kodo-v*-aarch64-unknown-linux-gnu.tar.gz`
- **Windows x64**: `kodo-v*-x86_64-pc-windows-msvc.zip`
- **Windows ARM64**: `kodo-v*-aarch64-pc-windows-msvc.zip`

## Plugin Marketplace

Kodo plugins extend Claude Code with specialized workflows:

| Plugin | Description |
|--------|-------------|
| [kodo](plugins/kodo/) | Core development workflows: planning, review, debugging, self-learning |
| [kodo-design](plugins/kodo-design/) | UI/UX design with WCAG AAA accessibility |
| [kodo-supabase](plugins/kodo-supabase/) | Supabase: databases, migrations, Edge Functions |
| [kodo-posthog](plugins/kodo-posthog/) | PostHog: events, feature flags, experiments |
| [kodo-analyzer](plugins/kodo-analyzer/) | Codebase analysis: security, performance, documentation |

### Install Plugins

```bash
# Install individual plugins
kodo plugin install kodo
kodo plugin install kodo-design

# List available plugins
kodo plugin list --available

# List installed plugins
kodo plugin list
```

### Plugin-Only Install (Claude Code)

For Claude Code users who only want the plugins without the full CLI:

```bash
# Or use Claude Code's native plugin install
# In Claude Code, type /plugin → Add Marketplace → paxtone-io/openkodo
```

## Usage

```bash
# Initialize in a project
kodo init

# Capture learnings from a coding session
kodo reflect

# Query accumulated context
kodo query "how do we handle authentication?"

# Add context manually
kodo curate --topic architecture "We use a hexagonal architecture pattern"

# Analyze codebase
kodo analyze --tech-stack --architecture
```

## Documentation

- [Getting Started](docs/GETTING-STARTED.md) - Installation and first steps
- [CLI Reference](docs/CLI-REFERENCE.md) - Full command documentation
- [Plugin Development](docs/PLUGIN-DEVELOPMENT.md) - Create custom plugins

## License

This project adopts a dual licensing model:

- The **plugins** (components within the `plugins/` directory) are open-source and licensed under the [MIT License](LICENSE.md).
- The **OpenKodo CLI** and other parts of this repository are proprietary software. While the CLI is free to use, its source code is not open for modification, redistribution, or any other use outside the terms provided.

By using this software, you agree to the terms for the OpenKodo CLI. Please refer to the [End User License Agreement](EULA.md) for details about proprietary usage.
